[4.6] docs(charts): add charts trendline documentation (#1671)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/chart/trendlines.md

---
title: Trendlines

> page_title: Chart Trendlines

Reviewer: The rest of the articles in this section use the pattern "Chart" - [article topic].
```suggestion
page_title: Chart - Trendlines
```

> description: Trendlines in the Charts for Blazor.

Reviewer: The [meta description](https://docs.telerik.com/style-guide/metadata#guidelines) must be at least 100 symbols long. The optimal length is 150. Try building one or two sentences that serve as a Call-to-Action (CTA).

slug: chart-trendlines
tags: telerik,blazor,chart,trendlines
published: true
position: 25
---

# Trendlines

Trendlines are dynamic indicators that automatically reveal the overarching trends within your series data. These trendlines are defined as a special type of series linked to the main series by name.

> Trendline series use the data from the main series. In cases where the main series employs aggregates, which is common for date series, the trendlines align with the aggregated data. For instance, when using a `sum` aggregate, the trendline illustrates the trends of the summations within each category.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Trendline series use the data from the main series. When the main series employs aggregates, which is common for date series, the trendlines align with the aggregated data. For instance, when using a `sum` aggregate, the trendline illustrates the trends for the sum within each category.
```

## Trendline Types

The Chart supports two fundamental types of trendlines - the `Linear Trendline` and the `Moving Average Trendline`.

### Linear Trendline

The Linear Trendline serves the purpose of indicating whether a specific quantity is on the rise or decline over time.

> >caption Below is an illustrative example showcasing the creation of a linear trendline in scatter line series:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>caption Linear trendline in scatter line Chart series
```

                new SalesData() { Period = "2020 Q4", Date = new DateTime(2020, 10, 1), Count = 579568 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2021 Q1", Date = new DateTime(2021, 1, 1), Count = 669590 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2021 Q2", Date = new DateTime(2021, 4, 1), Count = 793564 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2021 Q3", Date = new DateTime(2021, 7, 1), Count = 941133 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2021 Q4", Date = new DateTime(2021, 10, 1), Count = 1133020 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2022 Q1", Date = new DateTime(2022, 1, 1), Count = 426324 },
            };

            return data;
        }

        public static List<SalesData> GenerateScatterData()
        {
            var data = SalesData.GenerateData();

            for (int i = 0; i < data.Count; i++)
            {
                data[i].NumericPeriod = i + 10;
            }

            return data;
        }
    }
}
`````

### Moving Average Trendline

The Moving Average Trendline smoothens out data fluctuations by computing an average of all data points over a specified period. By default, this period is set to `2` chart intervals.

> >caption The following example showcases a moving average trendline in line series:

Reviewer 2: Captions don't need to be like sentences.

```suggestion
>caption Line Chart with a moving average trendline
```

                     Data="@Data"
                     Field="@nameof(SalesData.Count)"
                     CategoryField="@nameof(SalesData.Period)">
            <ChartSeriesMarkers Visible="false"></ChartSeriesMarkers>
        </ChartSeries>

        <ChartSeries Type="ChartSeriesType.MovingAverageTrendline"
                     Name="Sales Forecast (MOVING AVERAGE)"
                     For="@Series1Name"
                     Color="teal">
            <ChartSeriesMarkers Visible="false"></ChartSeriesMarkers>
            <ChartSeriesTrendline>
                <ChartSeriesTrendline Period="4"></ChartSeriesTrendline>
            </ChartSeriesTrendline>
        </ChartSeries>
    </ChartSeriesItems>

    <ChartCategoryAxes>
        <ChartCategoryAxis>
            <ChartCategoryAxisLabels Position="@ChartAxisLabelsPosition.Start">
                <ChartCategoryAxisLabelsRotation Angle="-90"></ChartCategoryAxisLabelsRotation>
            </ChartCategoryAxisLabels>
        </ChartCategoryAxis>
    </ChartCategoryAxes>

    <ChartValueAxes>
        <ChartValueAxis Min="-4e5" Max="1.2e6"></ChartValueAxis>
    </ChartValueAxes>
</TelerikChart>

@code {

>     public const string Height = "400px";

Reviewer 2: Use `private`, according to code style guide.

Consider hard-coding the Width and Height in the Chart if you use them just once and don't change them at runtime.

    public const string Width = "100%";
    public const string Series1Name = "Sales By Quarter";

    List<SalesData> Data { get; set; } = new List<SalesData>();

    protected override Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {
        Data = SalesData.GenerateData();
        return base.OnInitializedAsync();
    }

    public class SalesData
    {
        public string Period { get; set; }
        public int NumericPeriod { get; set; }
        public DateTime Date { get; set; }
        public int Count { get; set; }

>         public static List<SalesData> GenerateData()

Reviewer 2: It's strange architecture to hard-code data in a the model class. Move this to a separate method and call it from `OnInitializedAsync`.

                new SalesData() { Period = "2020 Q1", Date = new DateTime(2020, 1, 1), Count = 323309 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2020 Q2", Date = new DateTime(2020, 4, 1), Count = 358145 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2020 Q3", Date = new DateTime(2020, 7, 1), Count = 460927 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2020 Q4", Date = new DateTime(2020, 10, 1), Count = 579568 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2021 Q1", Date = new DateTime(2021, 1, 1), Count = 669590 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2021 Q2", Date = new DateTime(2021, 4, 1), Count = 793564 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2021 Q3", Date = new DateTime(2021, 7, 1), Count = 941133 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2021 Q4", Date = new DateTime(2021, 10, 1), Count = 1133020 },
                new SalesData() { Period = "2022 Q1", Date = new DateTime(2022, 1, 1), Count = 426324 },
            };

            return data;
        }
    }
}
`````

## Chart Trendlines Parameters

The following table lists Chart Trendlines parameters.

> | Parameter | Type and Default&nbsp;Value | Description |

Reviewer 2: If all default values match the default value of the type, then remove "and Default Value" as you don't have any.

| --- | --- | --- |
| `ChartSeries.For` | `string` | The name of the parent series of the trendline. |

> | `ChartSeriesTrendline` | `Object` | The trendline configuration options. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `ChartSeriesTrendline` | `object` | The trendline configuration options. |
```

| `ChartSeriesTrendlineForecast` | `Object` | The trendline forecast settings. By default, the trendline does not display a forecast. |
| `ChartSeriesTrendlineForecast.Before` | `int` | The number of intervals to extend the trendline before the first data point. |
| `ChartSeriesTrendlineForecast.After` | `int` | The number of intervals to extend the trendline after the last data point. |

> | `ChartSeriesTrendline.Period` | `int` | The number of intervals to take when calculating averages. The value should be an integer greater than 2. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ChartSeriesTrendline.Period` | `int` | The number of intervals to take when calculating averages. The value must be an integer greater than `2`. |
```

> | `Type` | `ChartSeriesType (enum) ` | The type of the series. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `Type` | `ChartSeriesType` enum | The type of the series. |
```

## Supported Series Types

Trendlines are supported for the following chart types:

> | Chart Type |

Reviewer 2: Why table? A list is more efficient and accessible markup.
